# Employee_analysis
## Part 1
With the old generation of Pewlett-Hackard employees moving closer and closer to retirement, the company is concerned about replacing talent lost to retirement. Certainly, Pewlett-Hackard has younger but experienced employees who can help take up the reins of the older generation, though that opens up the question on how to fill the younger employees' positions. This is where the mentorship program comes in, where the younger but experienced employees train the new generation of workers to work the old positions of the experienced employees. To help Pewlett-Hackard organize their mentorship program and prepare for their older workers retiring, we are tasked with digging into the company's employee files to find who is eligible for the mentorship program and who is close to retiring.
## Part 2
It doesn't take long to look up Pewlett-Hackard's employee files, but there are some challenges we still face. For one, the files are stored in csv files, which can conveniently be looked at with a host of applications like Microsoft Excel or Python with Pandas functionality. However, for our analysis, we will need to look at the data without tampering with the source employee data. While we could use pivot tables with Excel or DataFrames with Python/Pandas, we will use PostgreSQL for their neat functions and more intuitive syntaxes for databases.
## Part 3
After gathering the relevant data, we find that the great majority of retiring workers at Pewlett-Hackard are engineers and staff. Elsewhere, tehcnique leaders, assistant engineers, and two managers are also looking to retire. As such, we recommend that the company look into our new mentorship_eligibility.csv file to not only match which experienced workers can move up to engineer and staff positions but also what lower positions must be replaced.
